samples/bluetooth/cap_acceptor/README.rst, before:

.. zephyr:code-sample:: bluetooth_cap_acceptor
   :name: Bluetooth: Common Audio Profile Acceptor
   :relevant-api: bt_cap bt_bap bluetooth

   CAP Acceptor sample that advertises audio availability to CAP Initiators.

Overview
********

Application demonstrating the CAP Acceptor functionality.
Starts by advertising for a CAP Initiator to connect and set up available streams.

This sample can be found under :zephyr_file:`samples/bluetooth/cap_acceptor` in the Zephyr tree.

Check the :ref:`bluetooth samples section <bluetooth-samples>` for general information.

Requirements
************

* BlueZ running on the host, or
* A board with Bluetooth Low Energy 5.2 support

Building and Running
********************

When building targeting an nrf52 series board with the Zephyr Bluetooth Controller,
use ``-DOVERLAY_CONFIG=overlay-bt_ll_sw_split.conf`` to enable the required ISO
feature support.

Building for an nrf5340dk
-------------------------

You can build both the application core image and an appropriate controller image for the network
core with:

.. zephyr-app-commands::
   :zephyr-app: samples/bluetooth/cap_acceptor/
   :board: nrf5340dk/nrf5340/cpuapp
   :goals: build
   :west-args: --sysbuild

If you prefer to only build the application core image, you can do so by doing instead:

.. zephyr-app-commands::
   :zephyr-app: samples/bluetooth/cap_acceptor/
   :board: nrf5340dk/nrf5340/cpuapp
   :goals: build

In that case you can pair this application core image with the
:ref:`hci_ipc sample <bluetooth-hci-ipc-sample>`
:zephyr_file:`samples/bluetooth/hci_ipc/nrf5340_cpunet_iso-bt_ll_sw_split.conf` configuration.

Building for a simulated nrf5340bsim
------------------------------------

Similarly to how you would for real HW, you can do:

.. zephyr-app-commands::
   :zephyr-app: samples/bluetooth/cap_acceptor/
   :board: nrf5340bsim/nrf5340/cpuapp
   :goals: build
   :west-args: --sysbuild

Note this will produce a Linux executable in `./build/zephyr/zephyr.exe`.
For more information, check :ref:`this board documentation <nrf5340bsim>`.

Building for a simulated nrf52_bsim
-----------------------------------

.. zephyr-app-commands::
   :zephyr-app: samples/bluetooth/cap_acceptor/
   :board: nrf52_bsim
   :goals: build
   :gen-args: -DOVERLAY_CONFIG=overlay-bt_ll_sw_split.conf

Commit message:

Samples: Bluetooth: CAP Acceptor broadcast support
Add broadcast support for the CAP acceptor sample.

This adds new sample-specific Kconfig options to help
select the right Kconfig options based on whether
unicast, broadcast or both is being used.

The babblesim implemented for the broadcast has been expanded
to verify that the CAP acceptor receives the broadcast audio.

Signed-off-by: Emil Gydesen <emil.gydesen@nordicsemi.no>

samples/bluetooth/cap_acceptor/README.rst, after:

.. zephyr:code-sample:: bluetooth_cap_acceptor
   :name: Bluetooth: Common Audio Profile Acceptor
   :relevant-api: bt_cap bt_bap bluetooth

   CAP Acceptor sample that advertises audio availability to CAP Initiators and CAP Commanders.

Overview
********

Application demonstrating the CAP Acceptor functionality.
Starts by advertising for a CAP Initiator to connect and set up available streams.
It can also be configured to start scanning for broadcast audio streams by itself.

This sample can be found under :zephyr_file:`samples/bluetooth/cap_acceptor` in the Zephyr tree.

Check the :ref:`bluetooth samples section <bluetooth-samples>` for general information.

Requirements
************

* BlueZ running on the host, or
* A board with Bluetooth Low Energy 5.2 support

Building and Running
********************

When building targeting an nrf52 series board with the Zephyr Bluetooth Controller,
use ``-DOVERLAY_CONFIG=overlay-bt_ll_sw_split.conf`` to enable the required ISO
feature support.

Building for an nrf5340dk
-------------------------

You can build both the application core image and an appropriate controller image for the network
core with:

.. zephyr-app-commands::
   :zephyr-app: samples/bluetooth/cap_acceptor/
   :board: nrf5340dk/nrf5340/cpuapp
   :goals: build
   :west-args: --sysbuild

If you prefer to only build the application core image, you can do so by doing instead:

.. zephyr-app-commands::
   :zephyr-app: samples/bluetooth/cap_acceptor/
   :board: nrf5340dk/nrf5340/cpuapp
   :goals: build

In that case you can pair this application core image with the
:ref:`hci_ipc sample <bluetooth-hci-ipc-sample>`
:zephyr_file:`samples/bluetooth/hci_ipc/nrf5340_cpunet_iso-bt_ll_sw_split.conf` configuration.

Building for a simulated nrf5340bsim
------------------------------------

Similarly to how you would for real HW, you can do:

.. zephyr-app-commands::
   :zephyr-app: samples/bluetooth/cap_acceptor/
   :board: nrf5340bsim/nrf5340/cpuapp
   :goals: build
   :west-args: --sysbuild

Note this will produce a Linux executable in `./build/zephyr/zephyr.exe`.
For more information, check :ref:`this board documentation <nrf5340bsim>`.

Building for a simulated nrf52_bsim
-----------------------------------

.. zephyr-app-commands::
   :zephyr-app: samples/bluetooth/cap_acceptor/
   :board: nrf52_bsim
   :goals: build
   :gen-args: -DOVERLAY_CONFIG=overlay-bt_ll_sw_split.conf
